1.Create a private github repo named "i-am-a-git-noob"
Ans. Login to github>>create new repo

2.Create a new repository on local in an empty directory (NOTE: do not clone)
Ans. mkdir local-repo 
git init

Ques: What changes did you observe in the current directory after initializing local repo?
Ans.After initialising the repo with git init we get a hidden .git folder which we can see using ls-a. This git folder contains subfolders which takes care of history and tracks changes.

3.Point remote of your local git repo to the newly created repo on github
Ans. git remote add origin https://github.com/Honeyyy1807/i-am-a-git-noob.git

4.Print current git configs on terminal
Ans. git config --list

5.Update git config with your name and email address (only for current repository)
Ans. git config user.name "honey"
git config user.email "honey@gamil.com"

6.Create a file named "test1.txt"
Ans. cd local-repo
touch test1.txt

7.Added line with text "first line in file" in "test1.txt".
Ans. Echo "first line in file" >> test1.txt

8.Push this file to your github repo.
Ans. Git branch -m main
Git push -u origin main

Or

Git push -u origin master

9.Append line with text "second line in file" in "test1.txt".
Ans. Echo "second line in file" >> test1.txt

10.Add file to the staging area.
Ans. Git add test1.txt

11.Check the status of the file in all staging area
Ans. Git status

12.Append line with text "Third line in file" in "test1.txt". (Note status of files across different areas).
Ans. Echo "Third line in file" >> test1.txt

13.Remove "test1.txt" from the staging area.
Ans.git restore --staged test1.txt
Or
Git reset test1.txt

14.Create commit with message "My First Commit"
Ans. Git commit -m "My first commit"

15.Push commit to the remote repo
Ans. Git push
NOTE: checklist commits pushed to the remote
git log origin/main --oneline

16.Update message of last commit "My First Commit" to "My Second Commit" (without creating a new commit)
Ans. Git commit --amend -m "My second commit"
Or
Git commit --amend
Vim Editor will open
Press I for insert
Change the commit message
Save and exit

17.Push commit with the updated message to the remote repo
Ans. Git push --force origin main

18.Check the difference between the last and second last commits.
Ans. Git diff HEAD HEAD~1 -- test1.txt

19.Revert the last commit and check the updated commit logs history.
Ans. Git revert HEAD

20.Append line with text "Fourth line in file" in "test1.txt" and commit it.
Ans.echo "fourth line in file" >> test1.txt
Git add .
Git commit -m "fourth line added"

21.Update the last commit such that the "test1.txt"  also contains "Fifth line in file" (without creating a new commit)
Ans. nano test1.txt
Make changes , save it and exit
Git commit --amend --no-edit

22.Push the updated commits to the remote repository
Ans. Git push

23.Append some content in "test1.txt" file
Ans. cat >> test1.txt
"More lines added"

24.Pull all the content from remote repository to local repository
Ans. Git pull origin master

25.Clone the remote repository to some other directory in your local system.
Ans. cd into the directory then git clone https://github.com/Honeyyy1807/i-am-a-git-noob.git


